welcome to the orange and summer preview
with the dice tower in this series we
look at recently released and upcoming
games for summer 2014 and now recorded
live at origins 2014 here's your host
Erick summer welcome back to the origins
summer preview I'm Eric summer here with
Mike Fitzgerald and Mike many people
know you as the designer of the mystery
rummy series it's one of your big hits
yes it still is still selling which
amazes me sometimes but rate than
different languages and everything else
yes we're looking at edition number 5
mystery rummy number 5 which I have got
finished it's going to go the printer
very soon it's called escape from
alcatraz and i'm happy to announce that
it's being produced by eagle games and
us games now us games has done all that
all the series ok so far but this is
going to be a joint venture for this
game and a reprint of all the original
mystery rummies anger by the way is
number one right here Jack the Ripper's
yes you can burn your first set net you
get the whole set now yes that's being
reprinted as this is being made one so
this is based on Escape from Alcatraz
all the mystery rummies are based on
literature or actual history with an
event and they certainly have all the
details of that event of the game the
job I had was through a running mechanic
to try to create a sense of team that
goes with each of these games right so
the way I've done it with Alcatraz and
Andrew Corson as I mentioned is my
co-designer on this he actually
submitted this idea to a mystery rummy
contest I'm boardgamegeek he did not win
the contest okay but a very interesting
design he had and this was the theme and
he did a lot of great work on this theme
and I really love the theme and I asked
him listen if I finish this up and just
change it to fit the mr. rummy line
better in my way and we work together
would you be okay with the co.design he
was very excited so this is what we've
done so rates this hat even even more
people involved than just me which makes
it I think a better game great so here
we have Alcatraz now nobody has ever
escaped from Alcatraz
there are people that were never found
two people the Morris brothers who did
the tunnel through the walls are assumed
they drowned and we're found but nobody
else is ever really escaped so we are
guards yes Alcatraz and we are trying to
make sure that nobody ever escapes okay
so during the game what you're doing is
trying to find out about people's escape
plans they've been so many plans to try
to escape we have them all in the game
the seven main ones right with suits of
cards that you can actually make melz
which is making a setup and rummy style
so like the other mr. rummy games if you
were to get three cards in your hand of
attack the guards which is one of the
plans to escape you could actually play
them down and make them out now in this
game when you make a meld or layoffs
which is to play like you could play one
of those later right who are in response
yep you turn over one of these cards and
you do in action and these actions are
similar to what we used to call gavel
cards in the other history rummies they
will give you some things you do but
you're not sure which one is going to
happen okay but the goal is obviously to
get sets of these cards in play but
these will score you know points in this
rummy game you will get no points for
what's in front of you ever you will get
no points subtractive for what's in your
hand there's only one thing the scores
in this game and that is when you stop
and escape so here's what happens when
there are eight cards of these suit of
any of these suits and plans in play
anywhere between you and everybody
playing and this will play to 24 like
you have one two three four I have five
six seven eight when there's eight there
if you're on turn with eight you can
foil the escape plan but you've got to
find the escapee or an escape view has
to do with the plan to be able to arrest
them throw them in the end wrap it all
up you know so it can happen so you can
do that from your hand if you have an
escapee there are two kinds of escapees
the guys who are gray can escape with
any plan and they're worth five points
alright then there's the the actual
person who pulled who tried to pull off
each plant or because he matches the
color of the MELD and he's worth 10
points okay now there's a yard in this
game where the escapees hang out
the game starts by you putting one in
there you turn over the deck start the
discard pile when you find your first
escapees in the art during the game you
can never have more than more plans and
play many more colors of mel's then
there are escapees so somebody's got to
have the plan in the seventh got me
working on right and it doesn't have to
be the same color necessarily but
escapees got to be out there to allow
you to make mouths so when you have won
call you need one guy if you want to
make another color plan and meld you've
got to get another escapee in there
which you can play once a turn and then
make your mouth okay you're not going to
be able to do it without enough escapees
there so when you trigger the escape if
you're the one on the turn saying okay
we got eight play I'm wrapping up this
plan okay you can take a person from the
yard if they'll work like this guy will
because he's the main guy for this you
play it with the set you wrap them up
and they go in your score pile every
other player now as long as they have at
least one will wrap this up and put in
their score pile if in their hand is an
escapee that can go with it they may
also add that so if you had this guy
you're in you can play that wrap it up
you can't access the guys here you'll
just get the base points you wouldn't
get the escaping points but you wrap
these guys up okay and around the table
and you keep doing this if somebody can
get out in this game it is not easy to
get out because of these cards every
time you Mel the trigger you're doing in
action and you're going to be drawing
and doing other things that may make it
harder for you to get out the turn
you're thinking oh I'm going to go out
because you have to have a car to this
car but that may make it tougher when
you get when you go out you get three
points as a bonus for going out for
every escapee in the art and your score
pie if you're able to escape before any
attempt has been foiled before we've
even know that there's enough
information to stop one of these escapes
if you can do that you get the full
points of all the escapees
and nobody else scores that's very hard
to do a lot depends on how many things
start the discard pile and what the play
is and what cards you get in play okay
but that is the game it's very you can
score a lot of points on the hand you
can score not many the game has a very
interesting flow it's a different
strategy than the right then regular
rummy because of this eighth and play
and the importance of starting the
escape gets very tricky about how many
cards you want to put them play that's
hot and that's escaped from Alcatraz
this game right now is on Kickstarter
and you can go and back it I think the
entry level is like twenty dollars to
get a copy of the and every mystery
rummy from one to four which is being
reprinted now our add-ons to that
Kickstarter Oh me and there's a good
price for all them so if you are mr. le
fan I think this is a good opportunity
to round out your collection and
possibly get in on it all be arriving
around the same time because oh yeah or
did the same definitely will they'll be
out in the fall and everybody can get
them at Mike Fitzgerald thank you very
much looking forward to more mystery
rummy Thank You Erica
thank you for joining us today we hope
you join us for the rest of our summer
preview videos we'd like to thank gamma
and origins from making these videos
possible and we hope that all of you
have fun gaming see you next time